README.md, before:

# Data Recording
This is a simple ROS package that allows starting and stopping rosbag recordings via service calls, 
which is useful for performing repeated data collection. It also allows replaying those recordings for
analyzing performance. You can add annotations from within the code that will appear in Rviz during execution and replay.

## Run
`roslaunch data_recording data_recording.launch` uses the default mode:=minimal.

## Config
The config files for the recording are in the config directory. You can choose between different settings and add new config files.
Configure the output directory for the rosbag files and topics to be recorded (regex syntax is ok).
Rosbag files are saved with the current date and time as a filename.

## Usage

The package creates three services:
* `/data\_recording/start\_recording` which can be called with a `std_srvs.srv.RecordRequest` message
* `/data\_recording/stop\_recording` which can be called with a `std_srvs.srv.TriggerRequest` message
* `/data\_recording/toggle\_recording` which can be called with a `std_srvs.srv.TriggerRequest` message

Add the following imports to your ROS node:

```python
from std_srvs.srv import Trigger, TriggerRequest
from data_recording.srv import Record, RecordRequest
```

In the init of your ROS node, launch the services as
```python
start_record_srv = rospy.ServiceProxy('/data_recording/start_recording', Record)
stop_record_srv = rospy.ServiceProxy('/data_recording/stop_recording', Trigger)
```

Then in a regular service call:

```python
start_record_srv(RecordRequest('name of your file')  # this allows you to modify name based on e.g. the run
do_some_stuff()
stop_record_srv(TriggerRequest())
```

If you leave the `bagname` field of the `RecordRequest` empty, the file will be named using 
the datetime of the recording.

Make sure that stop_record_srv called before your node terminates, otherwise the service will continue recording. 
To stop recording automatically when your node shuts down, you can register a hook `rospy.on_shutdown(shutdown)`
where the `shutdown` method calls `stop_record_srv`.

### Annotations

From within the code you can add annotations to the stored rosbags by publishing 
strings to a special topic `/data_recording/annotations`. These messages are then displayed on Rviz
so you can analyze important events that happened in the code. This feature is optional.

Simply create a publisher in your initialization: 
```python
annotation_pub = rospy.Publisher('/data_recording/annotations', Marker, queue_size=10)
```
and add `from visualization_msgs.msg import Marker` to your imports.

Then create a text marker. See `example.py` for a function that does this.

Publish an annotation any time anywhere using `annotation_pub.publish(text_marker)`

If you want to test this functionality, launch the data_recording services as outlined above and
run `rosrun data_recording example.py`.

#### Visualizing annotations in Rviz

You can visualize the annotations during execution and during replay in Rviz. In Rviz, simply press `add`, choose `Marker` and select the topic `data_recording/annotations`. During replay (section below), this has been stored for you in the Rviz config file already.

## Replaying a rosbag

Kill all ROS nodes currently running. This file will launch all necessary nodes and rviz for you.

1. Launch a `roscore` and set `rosparam set use_sim_time true` if you want looping to visualize correctly.
2. `roslaunch data_recording replay.launch filename:=YOUR_RECORDING`.

The rosbag won't start playing until you hit the spacebar. This is because Rviz takes a while to launch and could be replaced with a delay.
This launch file assumes a specific path for the recordings which you can
specify using `filepath:=YOUR_FILEPATH`. The default filepath is the same as that for saving rosbags;
`data_recording/rosbags`.

This launch file launches a specific rviz config file. You can make a new config file, store it in the config folder and load it using the `mode` argument.

Commit message:

Set up rospy shutdown handler and SIGINT shutdown handler

README.md, after:

# Data Recording
This is a simple ROS package that allows starting and stopping rosbag recordings via service calls, 
which is useful for performing repeated data collection. It also allows replaying those recordings for
analyzing performance. You can add annotations from within the code that will appear in Rviz during execution and replay.

## Run
`roslaunch data_recording data_recording.launch` uses the default mode:=minimal.

## Config
The config files for the recording are in the config directory. You can choose between different settings and add new config files.
Configure the output directory for the rosbag files and topics to be recorded (regex syntax is ok).
Rosbag files are saved with the current date and time as a filename.

## Usage

The package creates three services:
* `/data\_recording/start\_recording` which can be called with a `std_srvs.srv.RecordRequest` message
* `/data\_recording/stop\_recording` which can be called with a `std_srvs.srv.TriggerRequest` message
* `/data\_recording/toggle\_recording` which can be called with a `std_srvs.srv.TriggerRequest` message

Add the following imports to your ROS node:

```python
from std_srvs.srv import Trigger, TriggerRequest
from data_recording.srv import Record, RecordRequest
```

In the init of your ROS node, launch the services as
```python
start_record_srv = rospy.ServiceProxy('/data_recording/start_recording', Record)
stop_record_srv = rospy.ServiceProxy('/data_recording/stop_recording', Trigger)
```

Then in a regular service call:

```python
start_record_srv(RecordRequest('name of your file')  # this allows you to modify name based on e.g. the run
do_some_stuff()
stop_record_srv(TriggerRequest())
```

If you leave the `bagname` field of the `RecordRequest` empty, the file will be named using 
the datetime of the recording.

Make sure that stop_record_srv called before your node terminates, otherwise the service will continue recording. 
To stop recording automatically when your node shuts down, you can register a hook `rospy.on_shutdown(stop_record_srv)`. 
This does not cover cases where the user cancels execution by hitting `Ctrl-C` (SIGINT). 
You can set up a handler for this in a similar way. To conclude, you should have at least the following
in the init of your node:

```python
import signal
# in your init:
rospy.on_shutdown(stop_record_srv) # when something else kills this node
def handler(signum, frame):
    stop_record_srv(TriggerRequest())
    exit(0)
signal.signal(signal.SIGINT, handler) # when the user shuts down the node
```

### Annotations

From within the code you can add annotations to the stored rosbags by publishing 
strings to a special topic `/data_recording/annotations`. These messages are then displayed on Rviz
so you can analyze important events that happened in the code. This feature is optional.

Simply create a publisher in your initialization: 
```python
annotation_pub = rospy.Publisher('/data_recording/annotations', Marker, queue_size=10)
```
and add `from visualization_msgs.msg import Marker` to your imports.

Then create a text marker. See `example.py` for a function that does this.

Publish an annotation any time anywhere using `annotation_pub.publish(text_marker)`

If you want to test this functionality, launch the data_recording services as outlined above and
run `rosrun data_recording example.py`.

#### Visualizing annotations in Rviz

You can visualize the annotations during execution and during replay in Rviz. In Rviz, simply press `add`, choose `Marker` and select the topic `data_recording/annotations`. During replay (section below), this has been stored for you in the Rviz config file already.

## Replaying a rosbag

Kill all ROS nodes currently running. This file will launch all necessary nodes and rviz for you.

1. Launch a `roscore` and set `rosparam set use_sim_time true` if you want looping to visualize correctly.
2. `roslaunch data_recording replay.launch filename:=YOUR_RECORDING`.

The rosbag won't start playing until you hit the spacebar. This is because Rviz takes a while to launch and could be replaced with a delay.
This launch file assumes a specific path for the recordings which you can
specify using `filepath:=YOUR_FILEPATH`. The default filepath is the same as that for saving rosbags;
`data_recording/rosbags`.

This launch file launches a specific rviz config file. You can make a new config file, store it in the config folder and load it using the `mode` argument.
